>> Mike North: We're going to go through
the process of adding some mobile
optimized metadata to this app so it does
not look bad anymore on a mobile device.
So let's go on over to our editor here.
And I'm on the master branch,
let me just open up the files.
So the first thing I wanna do
is make it a little bigger.
I wanna worry about the web app
manifest because this is sort of
a less trivial thing to do
with some of the other things.
And we'll just put the icing
on the cake at the end.
So what I will do is in this
client folder, we need a new file.
This JSON file, I just wanted to exist
as sort of a static thing that is passed
through as part of our production build.
And if we look in the dist folder,
>> Mike North: We've got the certificates,
those we put there manually, index.html.
You see like our CSS gets embedded in
there and we'll talk about that next.
But we don't have a web app manifest,
we have these images here and
that is interesting.
These launcher icon things.
But if we want a new file, so
here's what we're gonna do.
We'll create a new file, and we're gonna
just call it web-app-manifest.json.
>> Mike North: And I'm just gonna go
back to my slide here with this sample.
>> Mike North: And unfortunately,
we'll have to copy this in two halves.
Sorry for the screen swiping.
But here we are and
we won't worry about icons just yet.
>> Mike North: So
this is sort of a very basic manifest.
And if I were to build here,
I'm gonna do npm run build.dev.
I'm just doing it that
way cuz it's faster and
it doesn't get optimized quite as much.
And in this dist folder, I was I was
hoping that WebAp Manifest would show up.
It in fact does not.
The reason here is that the build
tool we're using Webpack by default.
It's just looking for
certain things that are necessary and
connected to critical resources that we
define as these are the things we need.
So this file exists but
think of it as like, it exists, and
then it is found to be unused, and
then not included in our dist folder.
What we wanna do in order to say that we
need to use this is we're gonna use this
file loader thing.
And I'm just gonna copy one of
the existing entries there.
And that the way this works in case
you're curious is like we can't
get rid of this if we want so we say file
loader and then an exclamation mark and
then everything after that is
like what are we loading?.
So we can just say web-app-manifest here.
>> Mike North: Now we could add this name
thing, think of it like a query param.
If the file in our project
structure was named
differently than what we want this
thing to be when we build the app.
So if I add this here,
I'm just gonna call it foo.json.
Build again,
we should see a foo.json pop up in dist.
>> Mike North: And indeed, there it is.
And it's the web-app-manifest.
So what we were saying here is,
the convention is keep the name the same.
But this name, like option,
allows us to change it.
But we're not gonna worry
about the name option,
we're just gonna keep it like this.
Now the reason I did it for
these images above is I
had them in a image folder and I kind of
wanted to take them out of the folder.
So more than just renaming,
this can be sort of reorganizing as well.
Think of the name of the file as
the relative path within that dist folder.
So great,
we've got our web app manifest and
the last thing we need is this
important meta tag up at the top.
We'll have to slightly, oops,
pardon me, slightly alter it.
So we're gonna look in
this index.ejs file.
This represents our index.html.
We're gonna be working with this a lot.
The EJS just means that we
can embed JavaScript, EJS.
So we could even put in here,
>> Mike North: We get 12.
So if you've used Ruby
on Rails you've seen-
>> Speaker 2: You get seven.
>> Mike North: What's that?
>> Speaker 3: You had a plus,
>> Mike North: Plus four, sorry, seven.
And I, 9, we would get 12.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: No, we get seven.
It's hard to talk and
type at the same time.
So on my clipboard hopefully,
nope, don't have it anymore.
So we've got this tag and we just need
to change this to web-app-manifest.
I'm naming this very deliberately
because when we start working,
getting deeper into progressive web apps,
we may have like up to three or
four different types of manifests.
We will regrettably
touch on the app cache,
hopefully at the very end of this journey.
And we're gonna have that a cautionary
app cache tale that has a manifest.
When we talk about pre caching,
assets we know about it build time we've
got a manifest there, here's a third one.
So name name wisely.
And now if we build again,
we're gonna see that in this
dist folder at the very bottom.
Expect this thing to pop up.
>> Mike North: And,
>> Mike North: Where did you go?
>> Mike North: Maybe I do need the name.
Interesting, I do need the name,
by default it's the hash of the file.
That's why we had this filename as 9010,
that's the checksum, so here we go.
>> Mike North: And
the thing that makes that complicated,
is now I need that to be in my HTML, so
I need to pass that value around, not fun.
All right, Web app manifest at the bottom.
There we go.
And if we fire the app up,
>> Mike North: Just with run serve.
>> Mike North: And
I'm going to open up my devtools here.
So now this is the running app.
And I want to show you a way that we can
kinda take a look at this as a first pass.
So this application tab, if you haven't
been using progressive web apps much,
if you haven't been playing in this area,
you've probably been hardly
even noticing this thing.
There's a lot of good stuff in here.
We're gonna be working with it all day.
Manifest is right at the top of
the list and you can see that yes,
I have in fact found that file and
we're not saying much here yet.
Let's see what's going on.
I have some errors.
>> Mike North: I expected
to see some stuff here.
Let's make sure the file's
where it's supposed to be.
>> Speaker 2: Also make sure you
don't have an old service worker.
>> Mike North: Could be, I do.
>> Mike North: Web app manifest,
there it is.
Is it invalid JSON?
Display standalone, it's the comments,
the comments are screwing me up.
Good old JSON, we can thank good
'ol Doug Crockford for that.
Another illustrious
Frontend Masters instructor.
>> Mike North: All right,
>> Mike North: So you're seeing already,
we have to be kind of wise when debugging
these things in that I got no feedback.
This is one of the down sides
of progressive enhancement or
one of the debugging challenges
of Webb app manifest was found.
It couldn't be processed,
and so I was told nothing.
So now hopefully we're in a better stage.
And we are.
There's my theme color,
there's my background color,
little color swatches there.
I've got Frontend Masters up there.
Let me actually bring this into my code.
>> Mike North: I could add
a short name really easily,
>> Mike North: Like that, and
it should pop up right here.
And it does.
So now we're in a pretty good state.
Frontend Grocer, and
let's add an icon here.
So I'm gonna add,
I have to cheat a little bit.
>> Mike North: Where are those icons?
>> Mike North: There's one,
>> Mike North: Again, comments, no good.
>> Mike North: And that's the wrong
file name, I will fix in a moment.
So I'm just gonna look in my dist folder.
And I see I've got image, and
then launcher-icon-,
>> Mike North: 1x, 2x, and 4x.
So if you open these up in your
favorite little image editing
software,
>> Mike North: You could
have figured out that, I think,
2x is the 192 pixel one.
Let me double check that that's the right
file name, launcher.icon -1x.png.
And we'll add our 512 which is the 4x.
>> Mike North: If we refresh
we should start to see, hey,
some nice images popping up.
So this is sort of giving us a little
summary of how this is going to work here.
So when we start to look at,
and let's add a start_url here,
that was one of our requirements.
>> Mike North: I'm gonna run our first
Lighthouse score after we add this in.
Okay, so
it is unfortunate that we have a little
back flip we have to go through to run
Lighthouse and it has to do with HTTPS.
I will show you step by step how to do it.
Step one, make a build of your app.
>> Mike North: And step two is
going to be serve it over HTTP/2.
And the reason is,
we're using two different servers here.
One of the checks involves trying
to make a plain HTTP request,
and being redirected to HTTPS.
Your apps should do this in production,
web pack does not do that.
Web pack dev server just serves over
HTTPS, it doesn't even listen on HTTP.
So now we can do run, serve and
add this HTTP2 option.
And I just wanna prove to you that this
actually works the way I claim it does.
>> Mike North: So
we look at the network request here.
The protocol htttp1.1.
So we'll launch it in this other mode.
We're gonna change the port to 5000.
And so we can see that our app
is being served at over h2.
But you can also see that HTTP1 is used
for our fetch as well cuz the little
express server in Node JS that's serving
up our JSON that is not running in HTTP2.
So what we can do now is run Lighthouse
and let's see where we're at.
We have to close devtools first just so
we can get like a nice, stable baseline.
Let's see how we look.
I ran this this morning before
making any enhancements to the app,
and we were at a 34.
So let's see where we're at.
We've forgotten to do
the little view port stuff.
And you can see that's how our app looks
on a mobile device, pretty terrible.
So we'll have to go back and do that.
>> Mike North: And we're at a 45,
so we're improving.
But it's also giving us some nice feedback
as to what we can do to make this better.
So first off, it's giving us
a meta tag that we should use.
Theme color,
we can put that in right away,
>> Mike North: In our index.ejs.
And we'll use the same theme
color that is our manifest,
it's just sort of a different
representation for it.
>> Mike North: And we don't have a view
port tag yet so I'm gonna go and
steal my recommended view
port tag from the notes.
>> Mike North: And
we'll add those apple tags there, as well.
>> Mike North: I'm just
gonna grab all three.
Two and
three.
>> Mike North: And we'll make FE
grocer there, and we can launch it.
Actually, we'll have to build it one more
time and then start the server again.
So developing with HTTP 2
right now is a bit of a pain.
>> Mike North: But it is very common for
apps to be served with HTTP 2 these days.
If you use a CDN, in a particular,
if you use Cloudflare,
they're trying to use
it wherever possible.
>> Mike North: All right,
now let's see where we're at.
Make sure it works, and it does,
one more Lighthouse run.
>> Mike North: All right, now this tower
app looks, view port's much better.
Much more mobile app aligned and
we should beat 47 by a little bit.
>> Mike North: See what we got,
73, getting much much better.
All right, so if you tried to fire up IOS
simulator you ran into an issue where
you saw it continually trying to load,
and load, and load.
What this revealed was a little difference
in the way web sockets have been
implemented in that particular browser.
Now we are serving over HTTP2 so
it's a much simpler setup,
we're not trying to refresh over and over,
this is a more production aligned thing
we're looking at here, but I just wanna
show you that it does in fact work.
This is a live version of the app.
Now let me just scale it down cuz it's
sort of telling a lie at this point.
Hardware, let's see, there we go.
>> Mike North: 75, so here's what we're
working with, a nice mobile looking app.
>> Mike North: And we can connect with
Safari and start working them there.
So I'm going to stop there and
move on to the next topic.
But if you want to learn more about this,
the SCO course also on Frontend Masters,
we dive deep into mobile metadata and
structure data.
I can do this last bit.
The schema.org stuff,
that would have involved just
going into this grocery tile.
So that's gonna be grocery item.
And we could have just basically
drop this in, we would have had to.
So you'll see that it'll
complain that there's this
JavaScript object it's trying to evaluate.
And you just have to just like
assign it to something up here.
>> Mike North: And
then if we looked at the app, come on.
We go back to HTTP1 now.
>> Mike North: We can see,
>> Mike North: You can inspect an element
and see that the data's there.
>> Mike North: No,
we hit a problem, let's go there.
>> Mike North: We have to stringify it.
>> Mike North: It doesn't like
just rendering objects in HTML.
So if we inspect element on this thing,
now we'll find that inside
the grocery item there is,
hey, this little script tag.
And now we're starting to show that
nice rich data until you could basically
get the HTML for this, perform a query,
grab all the product stuff.
And anything that is trying to display
your link in a rich way can do so
based on machine readable
data that you've provided.